RHDEVDOCS-1278: Providing a custom IDE based on Eclipse Theia (#1875)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/partials/con_support-for-theia-based-ides.adoc

[id="con_support-for-theia-based-ides_{context}"]
= Theia-based IDEs

This section describes how to provide a custom IDE, based on Eclipse Theia framework.

To use a Theia-based IDE in {prod} as an editor, you need to prepare three main components:

> * docker image with your IDE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a docker image containing your IDE
```

> * Che editor descriptor file - `meta.yaml`

Reviewer: `
```suggestion
* the Che editor descriptor file - `meta.yaml`
```

> * replace an editor in a Devfile

Reviewer: I don't think you need this bullet point if it's described in the `Procedure` section below

.Procedure

> . Describe your IDE with an editor descriptor - `meta.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Describe the IDE with an editor descriptor - `meta.yaml` file:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
version: 1.0.0
editors:
  - id: eclipse/che-theia/next
    title: Eclipse Theia development version.
    displayName: theia-ide
    description: Eclipse Theia, get the latest release each day.
    icon: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/theia-ide/theia/master/logo/theia-logo-no-text-black.svg?sanitize=true
    repository: https://github.com/eclipse/che-theia
    firstPublicationDate: "2021-01-01"
    endpoints:
      - name: "theia"
        public: true
        targetPort: 3100
        attributes:
          protocol: http
          type: ide
          secure: true
          cookiesAuthEnabled: true
          discoverable: false
    containers:
      - name: theia-ide
        image: "<your-ide-image>"
        mountSources: true
        ports:
          - exposedPort: 3100
        memoryLimit: "512M"
----
+

> `targetPort` and `exposedPort` must be the same as your Theia-based IDE is running on, inside a container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`targetPort` and `exposedPort` must be the same as the Theia-based IDE running inside the container.
```

> Replace `<your-ide-image>` with the name of your IDE image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `<your-ide-image>` with the name of the IDE image.
```

> Your `meta.yaml` file should accessible by http(s) link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `meta.yaml` file should be publicly accessible through an HTTP(S) link.
```

. Add your editor to a Devfile:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: 1.0.0
metadata:
  name: che-theia-based-ide
components:
  - type: cheEditor
    reference: '<meta.yaml URL>'
----
+

> `<meta.yaml URL>` should point to the `meta.yaml` file described on a previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<meta.yaml URL>` should point to the publicly hosted `meta.yaml` file described in the previous step.
```
